# Troubleshooting guide

The most common questions and user-issues can be resolved by reading the documentation carefully. After consulting this page, please work through the <a href="https://github.com/openfaas/workshop/">OpenFaaS workshop</a> where many concepts are explained in detail with worked-examples.

## Asynchronous functions

Any function can be invoked asynchronously by changing the route on the gateway from `/function/<name>` to `/async-function/<name>`. A `202 Accepted` message will be issued in response to asynchronous calls.

If you would like to receive a value from an asynchronous call you should pass a HTTP header with the URL to be used for the call-back.

```
$ faas invoke figlet --Header "X-Callback-Url=https://request.bin/mybin"
```

Alternatively you can specify another asynchronous or synchronous function to run instead.

* Parallelism

By default there is one queue-worker replica deployed which is set up to run a single task of up to 30 seconds in duration with one task in parallel. You can increase the parallelism by scaling the queue-worker up - i.e. 5 replicas for 5 parallel tasks.

You can tune the values for the number of tasks each queue worker may run in parallel as well as the maximum duration of any asynchronous task that worker processes. Edit the Kubernetes helm chart, YAML or Swarm docker-compose.yml files.

The [OpenFaaS workshop](https://github.com/openfaas/workshop) has more instructions on running tasks asynchronously.


* Verbose Output

The Queue Worker component enables asynchronous processing of function requests. The default verbosity level hides the message content, but this can be viewed by setting write_debug to true when deploying.

### Callback request headers

The following additional request headers will be set when invoking the call back URL:

| Header             | Description |
|--------------------|-------------|
| X-Call-Id          | The original function call's [tracing UUID](https://github.com/openfaas/faas/blob/master/gateway/README.md#tracing) |
| X-Duration-Seconds | Time taken in seconds to execute the original function call |
| X-Function-Status  | [HTTP status code](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_HTTP_status_codes) returned by the original function call |

## Chaining / workflows

> See also <a href="#Timeouts">Timeouts</a> (below)

When chaning or invoking another function, do this by calling it via the gateway either using the external IP address of the cluster / gateway, or by the internal DNS name.

A common user-error is to try to invoke the gateway from within a function using `http://127.0.0.1` or `localhost` - this address simply points back to the container the function is running in and is invalid.

> Note: If you access the gateway via its DNS entry/name then it is recommended to configure the gateway URL via an environmental variable (such as `gateway_url`) to make sure you can port the function between OpenFaaS providers.

### On Kubernetes

The default address for the gateway on Kubernetes is `http://gateway.openfaas:8080`.

### On Docker Swarm

The default address for the gateway is `http://gateway:8080`

## Timeouts

Default timeouts are configured at the HTTP level and must be set both on the gateway and the function.

> Note: all distributed systems need a maximum timeout value to be configured for work. This means that work cannot be unbounded.

### Timeouts - Your function

You can also enforce a hard-timeout for your function with the `hard_timeout` environmental variable.

For watchdog configuration see the [README](https://github.com/openfaas/faas/tree/master/watchdog).

The best way to set the timeout is in the YAML file generated by the `faas-cli`.

Example Go app that sleeps for (10 seconds):

```
provider:
  name: faas
  gateway: http://127.0.0.1:8080

functions:
  sleepygo:
    lang: go
    handler: ./sleepygo
    image: alexellis2/sleeps-for-10-seconds
    environment:
        read_timeout: 20s
        write_timeout: 20s
```

handler.go

```
package function

...

func Handle(req []byte) string {
	time.Sleep(time.Second * 10)
	return fmt.Sprintf("Hello, Go. You said: %s", string(req))
}
```

### Timeouts - Gateway

For the gateway set the following environmental variables:

```
            read_timeout:  "25s"        # Maximum time to read HTTP request
            write_timeout: "25s"        # Maximum time to write HTTP response
            upstream_timeout: "20s"     # Maximum duration of upstream function call
```

> Note: The value for `upstream_timeout` should be slightly less than `read_timeout` and `write_timeout`

### Timeouts - Function provider

When using a gateway version older than `0.7.8` a timeout matching the gateway should be set for the `faas-swarm` or `faas-netes` controller.

```
read_timeout: 25s
write_timeout: 25s
```

### Timeouts - Asynchronous invocations

For asynchronous invocations of functions a separate timeout can be configured at the `queue-worker` level in the `ack_wait` environmental variable.

If the `ack_wait` is exceeded the task will not be acknowledge and the queue system will retry the invocation.

## Function execution logs

By default the functions will not log out the result, but just show how long the process took to run and the length of the result in bytes.

```
$ echo test this | faas invoke json-hook -g 127.0.0.1:31112
Received JSON webook. Elements: 10

$ kubectl logs deploy/json-hook -n openfaas-fn
2018/01/28 20:47:21 Writing lock-file to: /tmp/.lock
2018/01/28 20:47:27 Forking fprocess.
2018/01/28 20:47:27 Wrote 35 Bytes - Duration: 0.001844 seconds
```

If you want to see the result of a function in the function's logs then deploy it with the `write_debug` environmental variable set to `true`.

For example:

```
provider:
  name: faas
  gateway: http://127.0.0.1:8080

functions:
  json-hook:
    lang: go
    handler: ./json-hook
    image: json-hook
    environment:
      write_debug: true
```

Now you'll see logs like this:

```
$ echo test this | faas invoke json-hook -g 127.0.0.1:31112
Received JSON webook. Elements: 10

$ kubectl logs deploy/json-hook -n openfaas-fn
2018/01/28 20:50:27 Writing lock-file to: /tmp/.lock
2018/01/28 20:50:35 Forking fprocess.
2018/01/28 20:50:35 Query
2018/01/28 20:50:35 Path  /function/json-hook
Received JSON webook. Elements: 10
2018/01/28 20:50:35 Duration: 0.001857 seconds
```

You can then find the logs of the function using Docker Swarm or Kubernetes as listed in the section below.

## Healthcheck

Most problems reported via GitHub or Slack stem from a configuration problem or issue with a function. Here is a checklist of things you can try before digging deeper:

Checklist:

* [ ] All core services are deployed: i.e. gateway
* [ ] Check functions are deployed and started
* [ ] Check request isn't timing out at the gateway or the function level

## CLI unresponsive - 127.0.0.1 vs. localhost

On certain Linux distributions the name `localhost` maps to an IPv6 alias meaning that the CLI may hang. In these circumstances you have two options:

1.  Use the `-g` or `--gateway` argument with `127.0.0.1:8080` or similar

2.  Set the `OPENFAAS_URL` environmental variable to `127.0.0.1:8080` or similar

3.  Edit the `/etc/hosts` file on your machine and remove the IPv6 alias for localhost (this forces the use of IPv4)

## Uninstall OpenFaaS

If you'd like to uninstall or remove OpenFaaS from a host follow the steps below.

### CLI

If you'd like to remove the CLI and you installed it with `brew`, then use `brew` to remove it.

If you installed via the `curl/sh` utility script:

* Run `rm -rf /usr/local/bin/faas-cli`
* Delete saved gateway login details: `rm -rf ~/.openfaas`

### Swarm

Remove any functions you deployed:

```
$ docker service ls --filter="label=function" -q | xargs docker service rm
```

Remove the whole stack

```
$ docker stack rm func
```

### Kubernetes

If deployed via Helm:

```
helm delete --purge openfaas
```

If installed via YAML files:

```
kubectl delete namespace openfaas,openfaas-fn
```

## Troubleshooting Swarm or Kubernetes

### Troubleshoot Docker Swarm

#### List all functions

```
$ docker service ls
```

You are looking for 1/1 for the replica count of each service listed.

#### Find a function's logs

```
$ docker service logs --tail 100 FUNCTION
```

#### Find out if a function failed to start

```
$ docker service ps --no-trunc=true FUNCTION
```

### I forgot my gateway password

If you've logged into the OpenFaaS CLI then you can retrieve the credentials from `config.yaml` in `~/.openfaas/`. Use the value from the `token` field such as: `echo -n HASHED_VALUE | base64 -D/-d` to view the contents in plain-text. If you don't have access to bash or the base64 utility then type in `docker run -ti alpine:3.7` to run a shell in Docker.

If you never logged in via the CLI then you can retrieve the contents from the cluster secret store:

#### Swarm

Use the [jaas](https://github.com/alexellis/jaas) task-runner for Swarm (easiest option):

```
$ docker run -ti -v /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock \
  alexellis2/jaas:1.0.0 \
  run --secret basic-auth-password \
  --image alpine:3.7 \
  --command "cat /run/secrets/basic-auth-password"

Printing service logs
2018-08-28T07:50:46.431268693Z  21f596c9cd75a0fe5e335fb743995d18399e83418a37a79e719576a724efbbb6
```

* Or use a one-shot Docker Service:

```
$ docker service rm print-password \
 ; docker service create --detach --secret basic-auth-password \
   --restart-condition=none --name=print-password \
   alpine:3.7 cat /run/secrets/basic-auth-password

$ docker service logs print-password
print-password.1.59bwe0bb4d99@nuc    | 21f596c9cd75a0fe5e335fb743995d18399e83418a37a79e719576a724efbbb6
```

### Troubleshoot Kubernetes

If you have deployed OpenFaaS to the recommended namespaces then functions are in the `openfaas-fn` namespace and the core services are in the `openfaas` namespace. The `-n` flag to `kubectl` sets the namespace to look at.

#### List OpenFaaS services

```
$ kubectl get deploy -n openfaas
```

#### List all functions

```
$ kubectl get deploy -n openfaas-fn
```

#### Find a function's logs

```
$ kubectl logs -n openfaas-fn deploy/FUNCTION_NAME
```

#### Find out if a function failed to start

```
$ kubectl describe -n openfaas-fn deploy/FUNCTION_NAME
```

```
$ kubectl get events --sort-by=.metadata.creationTimestamp -n openfaas-fn
```

#### Check logs of the core services

Check for any relevant events:

```
$ kubectl get events --sort-by=.metadata.creationTimestamp -n openfaas
```

These instructions may differ depending on whether you are using faas-netes (default) or the OpenFaaS Operator

##### Get logs using faas-netes

```
$ kubectl logs -n openfaas deploy/gateway -c faas-netes
$ kubectl logs -n openfaas deploy/gateway -c gateway
```

##### Check the queue-worker

```
$ kubectl logs -n openfaas-fn deploy/queue-worker
```

##### Get logs using OpenFaaS Operator

```
$ kubectl logs -n openfaas deploy/gateway -c operator
$ kubectl logs -n openfaas deploy/gateway -c gateway
```

#### I forgot my gateway password

Use the following to print the secret on the terminal:

```
PASSWORD=$(kubectl get secret -n openfaas basic-auth -o jsonpath="{.data.basic-auth-password}" | base64 --decode; echo)

echo $PASSWORD
```

Set `OPENFAAS_URL` then log into the gateway:

```
echo -n $PASSWORD | faas-cli login --username admin --password-stdin
```

If you installed OpenFaaS into a custom namespace then change the value `-n openfaas` to `-n custom-ns`.

## Watchdog

### Debug your function without deploying it

Here's an example of how you can deploy a function without using an orchestrator and the API gateway. It is especially useful for testing:

```
$ docker run --name debug-alpine \
  -p 8081:8080 -ti functions/alpine:latest sh
# fprocess=date fwatchdog &
```

Now you can access the function with one of the supported HTTP methods such as GET/POST etc:

```
$ curl -4 127.0.0.1:8081
```

### Edit your function without rebuilding it

You can bind-mount code straight into your function and work with it locally, until you are ready to re-build. This is a common flow with containers, but should be used sparingly.

Within the CLI directory for instance:

Build the samples:

```
$ git clone https://github.com/openfaas/faas-cli && \
  cd faas-cli
$ faas-cli -action build -f ./samples.yml
```

Now work with the Python-hello sample, with the code mounted live:

```
$ docker run -v `pwd`/sample/url-ping/:/root/function/ \
  --name debug-alpine -p 8081:8080 -ti alexellis/faas-url-ping sh
$ touch ./function/__init__.py
# fwatchdog
```

Now you can start editing the code in the sample/url-ping folder and it will reload live for every request.

```
$ curl 127.0.0.1:8081 -d "https://www.google.com"
Handle this -> https://www.google.com
https://www.google.com => 200
```

Now you can edit handler.py and you'll see the change immediately:

```
$ echo "def handle(req):" > sample/url-ping/handler.py
$ echo '    print("Nothing to see here")' >> sample/url-ping/handler.py
$ curl 127.0.0.1:8081 -d "https://www.google.com"
Nothing to see here
```
